feat: new `mongodbatlas_stream_instance` resource (#1685)
mongodb/terraform-provider-mongodbatlas: website/docs/r/stream_instance.html.markdown

---
layout: "mongodbatlas"
page_title: "MongoDB Atlas: stream instance"
sidebar_current: "docs-mongodbatlas-resource-stream-instance"
description: |-
Provides a Stream Instance resource.
---

# Resource: mongodbatlas_stream_instance

> `mongodbatlas_stream_instance` provides a Stream Instance resource. The resource lets you create, edit and delete stream instances in a project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mongodbatlas_stream_instance` provides a Stream Instance resource. The resource lets you create, edit, and delete stream instances in a project.
```

> -> **NOTE:** For details on stream processing and existing limitations you can visit the [Atlas Stream Processing Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/atlas-sp/overview/#atlas-stream-processing-overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> **NOTE:** To learn more about stream processing and existing limitations, see the [Atlas Stream Processing Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/atlas-sp/overview/#atlas-stream-processing-overview).
```

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "mongodbatlas_stream_instance" "test" {
    project_id = var.project_id
	instance_name = "InstanceName"
	data_process_region = {
		region = "VIRGINIA_USA"
		cloud_provider = "AWS"
  }
}
```

## Argument Reference

* `project_id` - (Required) Unique 24-hexadecimal digit string that identifies your project.

> * `instance_name` - (Required) Human-readable label that identifies the stream instance..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `instance_name` - (Required) Human-readable label that identifies the stream instance.
```

> * `data_process_region` - (Required) Defines the cloud service provider and region where MongoDB Cloud performs stream processing. See [data process region](#data-process-region).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `data_process_region` - (Required) Cloud service provider and region where MongoDB Cloud performs stream processing. See [data process region](#data-process-region).

```

### Data Process Region

* `cloud_provider` - (Required) Label that identifies the cloud service provider where MongoDB Cloud performs stream processing. The [MongoDB Atlas API](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/Streams/operation/createStreamInstance) describes the valid values.
* `region` - (Required) Name of the cloud provider region hosting Atlas Stream Processing. The [MongoDB Atlas API](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/Streams/operation/createStreamInstance) describes the valid values.

## Attributes Reference

In addition to all arguments above, the following attributes are exported:

* `hostnames` - List that contains the hostnames assigned to the stream instance.

## Import

> Stream instance resource can be imported using the project ID and instance name, in the format `PROJECT_ID-INSTANCE_NAME`, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import stream instance resource using the project ID and instance name, in the format `PROJECT_ID-INSTANCE_NAME`. For example:
```

```
$ terraform import mongodbatlas_stream_instance.test 650972848269185c55f40ca1-InstanceName
```

> For more information see: [MongoDB Atlas API - Stream Instance](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/Streams/operation/createStreamInstance) Documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more, see: [MongoDB Atlas API - Stream Instance](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/reference/api-resources-spec/#tag/Streams/operation/createStreamInstance) Documentation.
```
